 Next Wednesday is July Fourth, one of the few summer holidays with decent sales. Whether you’re planning a huge barbecue or just taking the day to enjoy a rare weekday off from work, you may want to take some time to check out the tech deals happening around Independence Day this year.  Retailers like Amazon, eBay, HP, and more are running sales on everything from smartwatches to 4K TVs. Most Fourth of July deals run through next weekend. Not officially a Fourth of July sale, Amazon is running discounts on several tech products including their smart speaker, the Amazon Tap. The online retailer is working hard to show people that it’s more than just an auction site. eBay recently announced a “Best Price Guarantee” that offers a full 110 (yes, one hundred and ten) percent back if you find the product at a lower price. There’s obviously a bit of fine print there, but it might be worth scouring the web to see if you can find your next eBay purchase at a lower price somewhere else. eBay’s Fourth of July code, PARTYINUSA, applies to select purchases over $25. Several smart home devices are included in the sale. Head over to eBay’s sale page for a full list, or check out our best bets below. There are a couple of good deals on laptops at HP.com this weekend. Of particular note is the Spectre X360 for $1,169.99 (usually $1,369.99), which The Verge called out as one of the best laptops in 2017. Walmart is a solid place to check for deals on Apple products if you don’t mind an older model. The Fourth of July sale at Microsoft includes PC and Xbox deals, including $200 off the newest Surface Pro Laptop. Looking for gaming deals? Check out Polygon’s gaming deals roundup here. Good Deals is a weekly roundup of the best deals on the internet, curated by Vox Media’s commerce team in collaboration with The Verge’s editorial team. You can submit deals to deals@theverge.com and find more Good Deals here. All prices are reflective of the time of publication and are updated periodically to account for changes. 