 San Diego Comic-Con 2018 begins this week, so the next couple of days will be filled with a whirlwind of trailers for upcoming films, panels, cosplay, interactive experiences, and more. There will be panels from Warner Bros. about its upcoming slate of DC films, and we’re expecting new looks at The Predator, Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse, Star Trek: Discovery, The Walking Dead, and more.  The Verge will be at the convention to bring you the latest news from San Diego. Here’s what to look out for. (All times are Pacific.) 20th Century Fox is one of the biggest studios attending the show this year, but it will really only show off one film: The Predator. Director Shane Black will be there, along with Olivia Munn, Sterling K. Brown, Keegan-Michael Key, Trevante Rhodes, Jake Busey, Yvonne Strahovski, Thomas Jane, and Augusto Aguilera. We’ll probably see a new trailer, too.  BBC America will be back with a look at what’s ahead for Doctor Who. The 13th Doctor, played by Jodie Whittaker, will be there, along with Tosin Cole, Mandip Gill, showrunner Chris Chibnall, and producer Matt Stevens.  Lucasfilm’s animated show The Clone Wars premiered a decade ago, and creator Dave Filoni and others will look back on the legacy of the show.  YouTube’s original series Impulse premiered in June, and producers Doug Liman, Gene Klein, and David Bartis, showrunner Lauren LeFranc, and stars Maddie Hasson and Missi Pyle will discuss the show and preview some scenes.  Warner Bros. is teaming up with the Arthur C. Clarke Society, the film’s actors Keir Dullea and Gary Lockwood, and a panel of experts to look back on the film and its legacy. YouTube will preview its new sci-fi thriller Origin. Stars Tom Felton, Natalia Tena, Nora Arnezeder, and Sen Mitsuji along with writer / creator / executive producer Mika Watkins and director Paul W. S. Anderson will show off some new footage.  Syfy’s next big science fiction show is an adaptation of George R. R. Martin’s space horror story Nightflyers. Show producers Jeff Buhler, Gene Klein, and David Bartis, stars Eoin Macken, Gretchen Mol, David Ajala, Jodie Turner-Smith, and Angus Sampson will talk about what to expect and likely show off a trailer.  AMC’s Breaking Bad turned 10 years old in 2018, and cast members Bryan Cranston, Aaron Paul, Anna Gunn, Dean Norris, Betsy Brandt, R. J. Mitte, Bob Odenkirk, and Giancarlo Esposito and creator Vince Gilligan will be on hand to chat about the show’s legacy.  2008 also marked the launch of a weird digital media project from Joss Whedon: Dr. Horrible’s Singalong Blog, which followed Neil Patrick Harris’ Dr. Horrible as he aspired to become a supervillain. With this year’s anniversary, Joss Whedon, Jed Whedon, Nathan Fillion, Felicia Day, and Maurissa Tancharoen will be on hand to talk about the project.  Netflix seems to have a fairly low profile at this year’s show, but it will show off a new look at the upcoming season of its animated Voltron Legendary Defender.  The cast and crew of AMC’s The Walking Dead spinoff, Fear the Walking Dead, will be at SDCC to chat about where the show left off midway through season 4 and what to expect when it returns in August. Actors Alycia Debnam-Carey, Colman Domingo, Lennie James, Danay Garcia, Jenna Elfman, Maggie Grace, and Garret Dillahunt, executive producers and showrunners Andrew Chambliss and Ian Goldberg, executive producers Scott M. Gimple, Robert Kirkman, Gale Anne Hurd, and Dave Alpert, and special effects makeup supervisor and executive producer Greg Nicotero will all attend the panel.  Following Fear the Walking Dead’s panel, AMC will launch right into its original zombie show The Walking Dead. Andrew Lincoln, Norman Reedus, Danai Gurira, and Jeffrey Dean Morgan will join executive producer and showrunner Angela Kang and executive producers Scott M. Gimple, Robert Kirkman, Gale Anne Hurd, Dave Alpert, and special effects makeup supervisor and executive producer Greg Nicotero to talk about what’s coming up for season 9, which debuts in October.  Hulu’s next big show is a nostalgic, Stephen King-inspired show from J.J. Abrams. The streaming service will premiere the first episode, and afterward, creators and executive producers Sam Shaw and Dustin Thomason, and stars Sissy Spacek, Bill Skarsgård, Melanie Lynskey, and Jane Levy will discuss it.  CBS brought Star Trek back to television last year with its digital-only show Star Trek Discovery, a prequel that followed Federation officer Michael Burnham and the crew of the Discovery. Cast members Sonequa Martin-Green, Doug Jones, Shazad Latif, Mary Wiseman, Anthony Rapp, Wilson Cruz, Tig Notaro, Mary Chieffo, and Anson Mount will appear along with executive producers Alex Kurtzman and Heather Kadin to discuss the first season and what will happen when the show returns later this year.  Disney will showcase its upcoming publishing plans. Expect the company to reveal some new books from the Star Wars universe.  Universal will showcase two of its bigger films this year: Glass, the third installment in M. Night Shyamalan’s informal trilogy (following 2000’s Unbreakable and 2016’s Split) and its reboot of Halloween directed by David Gordon Green. Expect trailers for both films.  Marvel doesn’t appear to have a huge presence this year at SDCC, but it will show off a bit of what’s to come with its Freeform show Cloak and Dagger.  Paramount’s next big Transformers film is a spinoff that follows the smallest Autobot, Bumblebee. Director Travis Knight will chat with Hailee Steinfeld and other cast members.  While Marvel is skipping the show this year, we will get some Marvel content. Sony Pictures will show off details from its upcoming animated film, Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse along with Venom.  AMC will bring out actors Dominic Cooper, Ruth Negga, and Joseph Gilgun along with executive producers Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg and showrunner / executive producer Sam Catlin to talk about the third season of Preacher and what’s to come in the next half of the season.  The Legal Geeks and the Rebel Legion Sunrider Base will put Poe Dameron on mock trial for mutiny for his actions in The Last Jedi. A US Army JAG attorney will advocate for Poe before US Magistrate Judge Mitch Dembin, while Rebel Legion members will portray General Leia Organa and Poe Dameron. Cartoon Network will chat about its upcoming season of the animated show with creator Rebecca Sugar (who will bring her ukulele) along with cast members Estelle, Michaela Dietz, Deedee Magno Hall, and Zach Callison.  Warner Bros. is keeping a tight lid on what we’ll see at its two-hour slot this year. We’ll likely get some updates and trailers from Wonder Woman 1984 and Shazam, but there could be some other updates about the other big DC films that are in the pipeline.  The CW will bring its latest superhero show Black Lightning to SDCC this year to show off a look at the upcoming second season with the cast and crew.  The Syfy channel launched its DC universe show Krypton last year, and it departed from the comic lore in significant ways in the first season. The cast and crew will be on hand to talk about the first season, and we will get a look at what’s to come.  ComiXology’s head of content will be joined by a number of comic creators to take a look at what original content is coming from the publisher in the near future.  Seth MacFarlane’s Star Trek-inspired space show is coming back for a second season, and he’ll be on hand with some members of the cast and crew to take a look at what’s to come when the show returns in December.  Matt Groening will preview his forthcoming fantasy animated show for Netflix. We’ll get a preview of the History Channel’s new scripted drama based on “the true, Top Secret investigations into Unidentified Flying Objects (UFOs) and related phenomena conducted by the United States Air Force from 1952-1969.” The Syfy channel’s fantasy show The Magicians is coming back for a fourth season sometime next year, and the show’s cast and crew will be at the panel to answer questions and to provide a look at what’s to come. 