 This month, the DC Universe digital subscription service will open a beta for its streaming branch, and next week, it’ll launch with a show called DC Daily, a news program about all things DC. The DC Universe platform is designed to be an all-encompassing home for the media company’s vast content library. When it launches this fall, it will be available on a variety of platforms, from iOS to Android, as well as home devices such as Apple TV, Amazon Fire TV, and Android TV.  In addition to a slate of original live-action and animated shows, DC Universe will also house classic DC films and television shows, as well as remastered comics, designed to be read on a television screen or tablet. At San Diego Comic-Con, DC noted that it wants to bring all its fans together under one roof. DC will hold a preview of the program on August 29th at 7:30PM ET / 4:30PM PT, hosted by filmmaker Kevin Smith, who’ll introduce fans to the program and DC Universe.  A daily news program makes a lot of sense for the platform. DC Universe will host an encyclopedia, forums, and blog entries to help foster an online community of DC fans, and this seems like it will complement those sections. According to the company, DC Daily will feature a rundown of the day’s news; an in-depth feature on a dedicated topic, like a comic book or TV show; and panel discussions about the news.  There are a variety of similar shows out there, like The Star Wars Show or AMC’s The Talking Dead. But those are weekly programs, and while the DC universe is large, coming up with worthwhile news every day will be a significant challenge. If the show is compelling, it’ll be a good way to entice DC Universe subscribers to check in on the platform every day. DC also says some segments will be available on “additional online channels,” presumably to lure non-subscribers into subscribing, much like how networks like HBO chop up viral-ready segments of popular shows like John Oliver’s Last Week Tonight to post to YouTube.  