 One of the worst-kept secrets in gaming has turned out to be true: the Android version of Fortnite will be available exclusively on Samsung devices at launch. But it’s not just the new Note 9 and Tab S4 getting Fortnite; owners of a range of recent Samsung devices — the S9 / S9 Plus, Note 8, Galaxy S8 / S8 Plus, Galaxy S7, Galaxy S7 Edge, and Tab S3 — can all start playing the beta today. You’ll be able to install Fortnite from either Samsung’s Game Launcher app or Epic’s new installer, both available here. The official announcement from Samsung comes after a handful of reports pointed to the possibility, most recently following a leak of the game’s APK. The exclusivity period will last “for the next few days,” according to Samsung. That sounds like less than the 30-day window that was rumored, which should be welcome news for fans of the game. Anyone preordering the Galaxy Note 9 will have the option of receiving 15,000 V-bucks and the Fortnite Galaxy skin (seen above) instead of noise-canceling AKG headphones. (Or you can get both by paying $99.) When Fortnite does finally make its way out to the wider Android audience, it won’t be a typical launch. You can signup for an invite to the Android beta here; Epic also has a list of the compatible devices in its FAQ. The developer also previously revealed that it’s bypassing the Google Play Store altogether and instead releasing its own launcher for Fortnite. “Epic wants to have a direct relationship with our customers on all platforms where that’s possible,” CEO Tim Sweeney told The Verge. “The great thing about the Internet and the digital revolution is that this is possible, now that physical storefronts and middlemen distributors are no longer required.” The move also allows Epic to get around the 30 percent fee Google takes from all purchases in its store. At last count, Fortnite had an estimated 125 million players spread out across PC, Xbox One, PS4, Switch, and iOS. With the impending Android launch, the battle royale game is set to get even bigger.  